#summary This page discusses release notes for beagle-eclair-0x5, devkit8k-eclair-0x5
#labels Releasenotes

= Release Note: beagle-eclair-0x5, devkit8k-eclair-0x5 =

0xlab team is glad to announce the fifth release of 0xdroid. 0xdroid
is community-developed Android distribution by 0xlab, runs on omap3
based boards include beagleboard and devkit8000.

Version: beagle-eclair-0x5-sgx, beagle-eclair-0x5-no-sgx,
devkit8k-eclair-0x5-sgx, devkit8k-eclair-0x5-no-sgx

 * Version: beagle-eclair-0x5
 * Date: July 30, 2010
 * Release Image:
  * [http://downloads.0xlab.org/release/beagle-eclair-0x5-no-sgx/beagle-eclair-0x5_no_sgx.zip beagle-eclair-0x5_no_sgx.zip]
  * [http://downloads.0xlab.org/release/beagle-eclair-0x5-sgx/beagle-eclair-0x5_sgx.zip beagle-eclair-0x5_sgx.zip]
  * [http://downloads.0xlab.org/release/devkit8k-eclair-0x5-no-sgx/devkit8k-eclair-0x5_no_sgx.zip devkit8k-eclair-0x5_no_sgx.zip]
  * [http://downloads.0xlab.org/release/devkit8k-eclair-0x5-sgx/devkit8k-eclair-0x5_sgx.zip devkit8k-eclair-0x5_sgx.zip]
 * MD5 sum:
  * [http://downloads.0xlab.org/release/beagle-eclair-0x5-no-sgx/md5sum.txt beagle-eclair-0x5_no_sgx]
  * [http://downloads.0xlab.org/release/beagle-eclair-0x5-sgx/md5sum.txt beagle-eclair-0x5_sgx]
  * [http://downloads.0xlab.org/release/devkit8k-eclair-0x5-no-sgx/md5sum.txt devkit8k-eclair-0x5_no_sgx]
  * [http://downloads.0xlab.org/release/devkit8k-eclair-0x5-sgx/md5sum.txt devkit8k-eclair-0x5_sgx]

= Release Details =

 * Eclair codebase
 * Feature: Major Linux kernel upgrade: from 2.6.29 to 2.6.32
 * Feature: Support TI's Android PowerVR SGX (hardware 2D/3D engine)
 * Feature: Support Android USB gadget: adb and mass-storage
  Note: 0xdroid no longer support usbnet gadget driver. Use adb or USB Ethernet instead.
 * Feature: new Bluetooth Extensions -- HID
 * Feature: Make Launcher2 really usable
 * Feature: Make Gallery3D workable by fixing PixelFlinger? regressions
 * Feature: Touchscreen Calibration shouldn't require reboot
 * Feature: Robocat i2c port support
 * Feature: Improved libgralloc for non HW accelerated targets

For more detail, please reference our [http://code.google.com/p/0xdroid/wiki/Roadmap roadmap and issues tracking]

== Where to download images ==
You can grab the image from [http://downloads.0xlab.org/release/ here] and
following the steps described on the wiki page to test the image.

This release comes with [http://processors.wiki.ti.com/index.php/Render_to_Texture_with_OpenGL_ES#Introduction PowerVR SGX] from Texas Instruments. If you try both two images with SGX and without SGX, you would tell how amazing it displays photos in Gallery 3D application. Like ususal, it also comes with a happy Installer and it would bring you an Android Eclair system in few seconds. If you are looking for more details about the integration, you could reference to this [How_to_Integrate_with_SGX wiki] page. 

== How to build from scratch ==
{{{
  $ repo init -u git://gitorious.org/0xdroid/manifest.git -b beagle-eclair -m beagle-eclair-0x5.xml
  $ echo "TARGET_PRODUCT := beagleboard" > buildspec.mk
  $ echo "TARGET_PRODUCT := devkit8000" > buildspec.mk ( if build for devkit8000 )
  $ echo "INSTALL_PREBUILT_DEMO_APKS := true" >> buildspec.mk ( optional for adding prebuilt demo apks )
  $ repo sync
  $ make (or make -j4 if there are 4 cores)
}}}

== Give us feedback ==
  * Join the [http://groups.google.com/group/0xlab-devel 0xlab Development mailing-list]
  * Join the [http://groups.google.com/group/0xlab-discuss 0xlab General discussion mailing-list]
  * [http://code.google.com/p/0xdroid/issues Issue tracking]