#summary USB Networking how-to

= Introduction =

In order to communicate via TCP/IP to Beagleboard, a basic understanding of the networking expectations is required. Each end of the USB connection forms a LAN (local area network) segment, with the Beagleboard's USB networking device at one end (default 192.168.0.202) and your laptop or desktop at the other end (192.168.0.200 in this guide).

Normally, your desktop machine will know how to reach the Internet, having had its gateway (the IP address of the machine or device which knows how to send packets to machines beyond your subnet) configured via DHCP or statically (probably via a router). For the Beagleboard to reach the Internet, your desktop will have to be configured to route and masquerade (NAT) packets from it.

Normally, none of this is an issue, but problems can arise when the subnet between the Beagleboard and your desktop overlap with the desktop to the router (which forms a second LAN), since your desktop might not know how to route traffic properly.

In other words: if your existing router and desktop have addresses 192.168.0.(something) changing them to e.g. 192.168.1.(something) might save you a lot of troubleshooting later. 

= Using network-manager on Linux distributions using udev =

It is possible to use network-manager to automatically connect to the Beagleboard using udev. The process uses udev to run a script when the Beagleboard is plugged in.

Depending on which boot loader your device is running it shows as usb0.

The script uses the ip command to set the mac address of the usb network interface.

To begin, create /etc/udev/rules.d/80-beagleboard.rules : 
{{{
KERNEL=="usb[0-9]*", DRIVERS=="cdc_ether", ACTION=="add", RUN+="/usr/local/sbin/beagleboard-usb-add.sh %k"
}}}

Next, create the file /usr/local/sbin/beagleboard-usb-add.sh : 
{{{
#!/bin/sh

sysctl net.netfilter.nf_conntrack_acct=1

ifconfig $1 192.168.0.200 netmask 255.255.255.0
iptables -A POSTROUTING -t nat -j MASQUERADE -s 192.168.0.0/24
echo 1 > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_forward
iptables -P FORWARD ACCEPT
}}}