#summary This page discusses using the pre-built 0xdroid images on Beagleboard/Devkit8000 quickly.

= Introduction =

We provide the [http://downloads.0xlab.org/ pre-built images] and also come with a [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6E8aS6wxZV0 happy Installer]. We can use the images and then get the newest Android in Beagleboard or Devkit8000. It would take only few minutes to achieve it. Besides these pre-buit images, we can [Source build from scratch] and gain the images too. 

== Obtain Prebult Images ==

There are two kinds of pre-built images. One is [http://downloads.0xlab.org/release/ official released images]  (stable) and the other one is [http://downloads.0xlab.org/dailybuild/ daily build images] (experimental). You can download the pre-built images from [http://downloads.0xlab.org/ 0xlab download website] and then follow the instructions to install into Beagleboard/Devkit8000 environment. 

*NOTE*: for newer Beagleboard (rev C4), you need to rename "uImage.bin" to uImage (on the SD card) for the default bootloader to pick it up. [http://groups.google.com/group/0xlab-devel/browse_thread/thread/00bf82f395d65b3a (naming problem)]

== Installation ==

Make sure that Beagleboard hardware is properly set up first.  Check wiki page [hardware_beagleboard] in advance.  You can either use automated approach from Installer  (for dummies)or go through the details (for geeks).

=== for dummies ===

|| || *[beagle_eclair_0x4 devkit8k-eclair-0x4]* || *[beagle_eclair_0x4 beagle-eclair-0x4]* || *[beagle_donut_0x3 beagle-donut-0x3]* || *beagle-cupcake-0x2* || *beagle-cupcake-0x1* ||
|| Installer || [http://downloads.0xlab.org/release/devkit8k-eclair-0x4/devkit8k-eclair-0x4.zip devkit8k-eclair-0x4.zip] || [http://downloads.0xlab.org/release/beagle-eclair-0x4/beagle-eclair-0x4.zip beagle-eclair-0x4.zip] || [http://downloads.0xlab.org/installer/beagle-donut-0x3/uImage.bin uImage.bin] || [http://downloads.0xlab.org/installer/beagle-cupcake-0x2/uImage.bin uImage.bin] || [http://downloads.0xlab.org/installer/beagle-cupcake-0x1/uImage.bin uImage.bin] ||
|| Kernel || [http://downloads.0xlab.org/release/devkit8k-eclair-0x4/devkit8k-eclair-0x4.zip devkit8k-eclair-0x4.zip] || [http://downloads.0xlab.org/release/beagle-eclair-0x4/beagle-eclair-0x4.zip beagle-eclair-0x4.zip] || [http://downloads.0xlab.org/release/beagle-donut-0x3/0xkernel-beagle.bin 0xkernel-beagle.bin] ||[http://downloads.0xlab.org/release/beagle-cupcake-0x2/0xkernel-beagle.bin 0xkernel-beagle.bin] || [http://downloads.0xlab.org/release/beagle-cupcake-0x1/0xkernel-beagle.bin 0xkernel-beagle.bin] ||
|| System || [http://downloads.0xlab.org/release/devkit8k-eclair-0x4/devkit8k-eclair-0x4.zip devkit8k-eclair-0x4.zip] || [http://downloads.0xlab.org/release/beagle-eclair-0x4/beagle-eclair-0x4.zip beagle-eclair-0x4.zip] || [http://downloads.0xlab.org/release/beagle-donut-0x3/android-beagle.ubi android-beagle.ubi] || [http://downloads.0xlab.org/release/beagle-cupcake-0x2/0xkernel-beagle.bin 0xkernel-beagle.bin] || [http://downloads.0xlab.org/release/beagle-cupcake-0x1/0xkernel-beagle.bin 0xkernel-beagle.bin] ||


== 0xdroid release 0x4 ==   

=== Beagle board ===
 * Format the first partition over than 100MB with VFAT on a SD card.
 * Download the release archive beagle-eclair-0x4.zip
 * unzip the archive into SD card first partition
 * Plug the SD card in beagleboard SD slot and restart the beagleboard
 * Wait for UI installer over
 * Unplug the beagleboard and restart it
 * Enjoy it

=== Devkit8000 ===
The stock bootloader uses a old machine id that does not match upstream registry. So new users have to reflash a newer bootloader.

 * Prepare the SD card as described below. Then unzip the release image onto the VFAT partition.
{{{
cd /media/sdb1
unzip ~/devkit8k-eclair-0x4.zip
}}}
 * Download the [http://downloads.0xlab.org/release/devkit8k-eclair-0x4/flash-uboot.bin new bootloader] to the same partition.
 * Edit install.conf, uncomment the U_BOOT_IMAGE line.
 * Plug the SD card in Devkit8000 SD slot and restart it.
 * Enter the u-boot prompt, use the following command the chainload the new bootloader.
{{{
mmcinit
fatload mmc 0 80300000 flash-uboot.bin
go 80300000
}}}
 * Then use the new bootloader to load installer
{{{
boot
}}}
 * Wait until all the leds turned on, then the installation is finished.
 * Remove the SD card and reboot.

*NOTE*: These steps only have to do once. After the bootloader is updated, the subsequence re-install will be as simple as *beagleboard*.

== 0xdroid release 0x1~0x3 ==

=== Beagle board ===

 * Format the first partition over than 100MB with VFAT on a SD card. 
 * Download the installer [http://downloads.0xlab.org/installer/ uImage.bin] 
 * Download 0xkernel-beagle.bin and android-beagle.ubi [http://downloads.0xlab.org/release/ release folder] 
 * Copy above three files into the first partition of SD/MMC card
 * Plug the SD card in Beagle board SD slot and restart the Beagleboard
 * Wait for UI installer over. The installer would perform NAND flashing and u-boot environment setup.
 * Unplug SD card from the Beagleboard and reboot
 * Enjoy!

==== Format SD card instructions under GNU/Linux ====
 * insert the SD card, wait it been detected, say /dev/mmcblk0 
  * It may be different with different SD device, you can check it via "dmesg")
{{{
dmesg | tail
}}}
  You should see something like -
{{{
scsi 5:0:0:0: Direct-Access     Multi    Flash Reader     1.00 PQ: 0 ANSI: 0
sd 5:0:0:0: Attached scsi generic sg2 type 0
usb-storage: device scan complete
sd 5:0:0:0: [sdb] Attached SCSI removable disk
sd 5:0:0:0: [sdb] 3862528 512-byte logical blocks: (1.97 GB/1.84 GiB)
sd 5:0:0:0: [sdb] Assuming drive cache: write through
sd 5:0:0:0: [sdb] Assuming drive cache: write through
 sdb: sdb1 sdb2
}}}
  If you are using the built-in SD/MMC slot, the device name would be /dev/mmcblk?
 * If any partition been mounted automatically, please umount.
 * According to the above device name about SD/MMC, create and format the partitions:
{{{
sudo fdisk /dev/mmcblk0
}}}
 or
{{{
sudo fdisk /dev/sdb
}}}
  * press "d" delete the origin partitions
  * press "n" creating new partition, select partition 1, and give over 100MB to it
  * press "t" and select partition 1. Change the partition label to "b" (W95 FAT32)
   * creating other partitions as you wish (optional)
  * press "p" to confirm the partitions.  The reference output:
{{{
Command (m for help): p

Disk /dev/sdd: 1977 MB, 1977614336 bytes
64 heads, 63 sectors/track, 957 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 4032 * 512 = 2064384 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x00000000

Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdd1            1          30       60448+   b  W95 FAT32
/dev/sdd2           31         957     1868832   83  Linux
}}}
  * press "wq" write back and quit fdisk
 * Format the partition for use: 
{{{
sudo mkfs.vfat -n DISK_INSTALLER /dev/mmcblk0p1
}}}
 or
{{{
sudo mkfs.vfat -n DISK_INSTALLER /dev/sdb1
}}}


=== for geeks ===
Check wiki page [boot_nand] as reference. 